Backup and Disaster Recovery Overview

Luci Digital’s platform incorporates a comprehensive backup and disaster recovery plan to ensure that data is preserved, services remain operational, and recovery from failures is swift and seamless. Utilizing the Proxmox Backup Server, Docker containers, and cloud-based services, the platform provides secure, encrypted backups and a scalable disaster recovery framework.

Key Components:

    Proxmox Backup Server: Centralized backup management for VMs and containers.
    Dockerized Backup Services: Handles file-level and application-level backups for the Luci Digital platform.
    Cloud-Based Storage: Offsite backups are stored in encrypted cloud storage to ensure data safety in case of physical hardware failures.
    Disaster Recovery Protocols: Procedures for restoring data and resuming operations in case of a catastrophic failure.

Step 1: Backup Strategy

    Proxmox Backup Server (PBS): The Proxmox Backup Server is the central backup solution for all VMs and containers running on Nebula, Tron, and Data. It provides full and incremental backups of VM disks and configurations, ensuring quick recovery.

        Install Proxmox Backup Server: Install PBS on a dedicated server or on Data using a Docker container.

        bash

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install proxmox-backup-server

    Configure PBS for VMs and Containers: In the Proxmox management console, configure backup jobs for each VM and container. Ensure that full backups are scheduled weekly, and incremental backups are scheduled daily.

    Backup Scheduling: Backups are scheduled via the Proxmox interface:
        Full Backups: Weekly (Sundays at 2:00 AM)
        Incremental Backups: Daily (Midnight)

    Retention Policy: Define a retention policy that keeps a certain number of full and incremental backups:
        4 Full Backups
        14 Incremental Backups

File-Level Backups via Docker: In addition to VM and container backups, the platform also performs file-level backups for critical application data, configuration files, and databases.

    Dockerized Backup Containers: Backup containers are used to handle specific backup tasks. For example, a container may be configured to backup MySQL databases and store them in the Proxmox Backup Server or in encrypted cloud storage.

    Backup Volumes: Ensure that application volumes (databases, logs, etc.) are mounted within the Docker containers and included in the backup jobs.

    bash

    sudo docker run -v /data:/backupdata --name backup-container mybackupimage

Encrypted Cloud Storage for Offsite Backups: Offsite backups are stored in cloud storage to protect against local hardware failures or disasters. All backups are encrypted using AES-256 encryption before being uploaded.

    Cloud Storage Provider: Backups are stored in AWS S3 or Google Cloud Storage, ensuring redundancy and geographic distribution.

    Using Rclone for Cloud Backup: Set up Rclone to sync Proxmox backups to cloud storage:

    bash

        rclone sync /mnt/proxmox-backups remote:backups --crypt

Step 2: Disaster Recovery Plan

    Recovery Scenarios: Luci Digital’s disaster recovery plan covers various failure scenarios, such as hardware failure, data corruption, and accidental deletion. The recovery plan ensures minimal downtime and data loss.

    Scenario 1: VM Failure
        In the event of a VM failure (e.g., Nebula VM crash), the affected VM can be restored from the latest backup using the Proxmox Backup Server.
        Recovery Steps:
            Access the Proxmox Backup Server console.
            Select the latest full or incremental backup for the affected VM.
            Restore the backup to the original or a new VM.

    Scenario 2: Data Corruption
        If data becomes corrupted within a container or application, a file-level restore can be initiated to recover the affected files or databases.
        Recovery Steps:
            Access the Docker container responsible for the corrupted data.
            Restore the affected files or databases from the backup stored on the Proxmox Backup Server or cloud storage.

    Scenario 3: Complete System Failure
        In the event of a complete system failure (e.g., hardware failure of all servers), a full system restore can be initiated by deploying the backup VMs and data from the Proxmox Backup Server and cloud backups.
        Recovery Steps:
            Rebuild the physical servers and reinstall Proxmox.
            Restore VMs and containers from the latest full backups on the Proxmox Backup Server.
            Restore any remaining data from encrypted cloud storage.

    Restoration Process: Restoration of VMs and data is handled through the Proxmox Backup Server interface or via the command line for file-level restores.

        Restoring a VM: In the Proxmox management console, navigate to the backup section and select the backup to restore. Choose the target node for the restore and monitor the progress.

        Restoring Application Data: For restoring specific application data (e.g., databases, configuration files), use Docker containers to recover the data from backup volumes.

    Testing and Drills: Periodically test the disaster recovery process to ensure that backups are working as expected and that the recovery process is smooth.
        Monthly DR Drills: Conduct full disaster recovery drills every month to ensure that staff and systems are prepared for potential disasters.
        Backup Integrity Checks: Regularly check the integrity of backups to ensure that no data corruption has occurred during the backup process.

Step 3: Backup Security and Compliance

    Encryption: All backups are encrypted using AES-256 encryption to ensure data security. Both local and cloud backups are encrypted, preventing unauthorized access to sensitive data.

        Encrypting Local Backups: Proxmox Backup Server supports encryption natively. Ensure that all backups are encrypted by enabling encryption in the PBS settings.

        Cloud Backup Encryption: Use Rclone to encrypt backups before they are uploaded to cloud storage. Rclone’s encryption feature ensures that even if cloud storage is compromised, the data remains secure.

    Compliance: The backup and disaster recovery processes are compliant with industry standards such as ISO 27001 and SOC 2. Regular audits are conducted to ensure compliance with data protection and security standards.

Step 4: Monitoring and Alerts

    Monitoring Backup Status: The status of backups is monitored continuously through Proxmox and Docker monitoring tools. Prometheus and Grafana can be configured to provide real-time metrics on backup success, failure rates, and storage usage.

    Automated Alerts: If a backup fails or storage space runs low, automated alerts are sent to the system administrators via email, SMS, or a centralized alerting system like PagerDuty.
        Example Alert Configuration:

        yaml

alert:
  onFailure: true
  onSuccess: false
  notify:
    - email: admin@lucidigital.net
    - sms: +1234567890
